Thanks we've noticed how much people
moan about them they get bad rap if you
think about it the English language has
written into it negative associations
towards the clans someone who's down or
depressed they're under a cloud and when
there's bad news in store there's a
cloud on the horizon I saw an article
the other day it was about problems with
computer processing over the Internet a
cloud over the cloud was a headline it
seems like they're everyone's default
doom and gloom metaphor but I think
they're beautiful don't you it's just
that their beauty is missed because
they're so omnipresent so I don't know
commonplace that people don't notice
them they don't notice the beauty but
they don't even notice the clouds unless
they get in the way of the Sun and so
people think of clouds as the things
that get in the way they think of them
as the annoying frustrating obstructions
and then they rush off and do some blue
sky thinking but most people when you
stop to ask them will admit to harboring
a strange sort of fondness for clouds
it's like a nostalgic fondness and they
make them think of their youth you here
can't remember thinking while looking
and finding shapes in the clouds when
they were kids you know when you were
masters of daydreaming
Aristophanes the ancient Greek
playwright he described the clouds as
the patron goddesses of idle fellows
during a half thousand years ago and you
can see what he means it's just that
these days US adults seem reluctant to
allow ourselves the indulgence of just
allowing our imaginations to drift along
in the
breeze and I think that's a pity I think
we should perhaps do a bit more of it I
think we should be a bit more willing
perhaps to look at the beautiful sight
of the sunlight bursting out from behind
the clouds and go wait a minute there's
two cats dancing the salsa for seeing
the beak for seeing the the big white
puffy one up there over the shopping
center looks like the abominable snowman
going to rob a bank they're like
nature's version of those ink blot
images you know that strengths used to
show their patients in the 60s and I
think if you consider the shapes you see
in the clouds we'll save money on
psychoanalysis bones let's say you're in
love alright then you look up and what
do you see right or maybe the opposite
you've just been dumped by your partner
and and everywhere you look it's kissing
couples perhaps you're having a moment
of existential angst new you're thinking
about your own mortality and they're on
the horizon it's the Grim Reaper
or maybe you see a topless sunbathers
what would that mean well would that
mean I have no idea but one thing I do
know is this the bad press that clowns
get is totally unfair I think we should
stand up for them which is why a few
years ago I started the cloud
appreciation society tens of thousands
of members now in almost 100 countries
around the world and all these
photographs that are sent that I'm
sharing they were sent in by members and
the Society exists to remind people of
this clouds are not something to moan
about far from it they are in fact the
most diverse evocative poetic aspect of
nature I think if you live with your
head in the clouds every now and then it
helps you keep your feet on the ground
and I want to show you why with the help
of some of my favorite types of cloud
let's start with this one it's the
cirrus cloud named after the Latin for a
lock of hair it's composed entirely of
ice crystals cascading from the upper
reaches of the troposphere and as these
ice crystals fall they pass through
different layers with different winds
and they speed up and slow down giving
the cloud these brushstroke appearances
these brushstroke forms known as full
streaks and these winds up there can be
very very fast it can be 200 miles an
hour 300 miles an hour these clouds are
bombing along but from all the way down
here they appear to me moving gracefully
slowly like most clouds and so to tune
into the clouds is to slow down to calm
down it's like a bit of everyday
meditation those are common clouds
what about rarer ones like the
lenticularis the ufo-shaped lenticularis
guard these clouds form in the region of
mountains when the wind passes rises to
pass over the mountain it can take on a
wave-like path in the lee of the peak
with these crowds hovering at the crest
of these invisible standing waves of air
these flying saucer-like forms and some
of the early black and white UFO photos
are in fact lenticularis cloud
it's true little rarer are the full
streak holes right this is when a layer
is made of a very very cold water
droplets and in one region they start to
freeze and this freezing sets off a
chain reaction which spreads outwards
with the ice crystals cascading and
falling down below even the appearance
of jellyfish tendrils down below rare is
still the kelvin-helmholtz cloud not a
very snappy name need to rebrand the
this looks like a series of breaking
waves and it's caused by shearing winds
that wind above the cloud layer and
below the cloud layer differ
significantly and in the middle in
between you get this undulating of the
air and if the difference in those
speeds is just right the tops of the
undulations curl over in these beautiful
breaking wave-like vortices all right
those are rarer clouds than the Cirrus
but they're not that rare if you look up
and you pay attention to the sky you'll
see them sooner or later maybe not quite
as dramatic as these but you'll see them
and you'll see them around where you
live clouds are the most egalitarian of
nature's displays because we all have a
good fantastic view of the sky these
clouds these rare are clouds remind us
that the exotic can be found in the
everyday nothing's more nourishing more
stimulating to an active enquiring mind
than being surprised being amazed it's
why we're all here at Ted right but you
don't need to rush off away from the
familiar across the world to be
surprised you just need to step outside
pay attention to what's so commonplace
so everyday so mundane that everybody
else misses it one glad that people
rarely miss is this one the cumulonimbus
storm cloud alright what produces
thunder and lightning and hail these
clouds spread out at the top in this
enormous anvil fashion stretching 10
miles up into the atmosphere they are an
expression of the majestic architecture
of our atmosphere but from down below
they are the embodiment of the powerful
elemental force and power that drives
our atmosphere to be there is to be
in the driving rain and the hail to feel
connected to our atmosphere is to be
reminded that we are creatures that
inhabit this ocean of air we don't live
beneath the sky we live within it and
that connection that visceral connection
to our atmosphere feels to me like an
antidote it's an antidote to the growing
tendency we have to feel that we can
really ever experience life by watching
it on a computer screen you know when
we're in a Wi-Fi zone but the one cloud
that best expresses why cloud spotting
is more valuable today than ever is this
one the cumulus cloud right it forms on
a sunny day if you close your eyes and
think of a cloud it's probably one of
these that comes to mind all those cloud
shapes at the beginning those were
cumulus clouds the sharp crisp outlines
of this formation make it the best one
for finding shapes in and it reminds us
of the aimless nature of cloud spotting
what an aimless activity it is you're
not gonna change the world by lying on
your back and gazing up at the sky are
you this pointless it's a pointless
activity which is precisely why it's so
important
the the digital world conspires to make
us feel eternally busy perpetually busy
you know when you're not dealing with
the traditional pressures of earning a
living putting food on the table raising
a family writing thank-you letters you
have to now contend with answering a
mountain of unanswered emails updating a
Facebook page feeding your Twitter feed
and cloud spotting legitimizes doing
nothing
and sometimes we need
sometimes we need excuses to do nothing
we need to be reminded by these picture
and goddesses of idle fellows that
slowing down and being in the present
not thinking about what you've got to do
what you should have done but just being
here letting your imagination lift from
the everyday concerns down here and just
being in the present it's good for you
it's good for the way you feel it's good
for your ideas it's good for your
creativity it's good for your soul so
keep looking up marvel at the ephemeral
beauty and always remember to live life
with your head in the clouds thank you
very much
[Applause]
[Music]